feat(dcgw): Azure VNET TF instructions and DCGW TF how to skill (#5554)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: .claude/skills/dcgw-terraform-how-to/references/dcgw-terraform-patterns.md

# DCGW Terraform how-to patterns

Reference for drafting Terraform-based Dedicated Cloud Gateways how-tos. Read this before drafting.

## Contents

1. [Frontmatter schema and template](#frontmatter-schema-and-template)
2. [Provider setup and prereqs](#provider-setup-and-prereqs)
3. [Cloud-gateway Terraform resource map](#cloud-gateway-terraform-resource-map)
4. [Transit gateway attachment kinds](#transit-gateway-attachment-kinds)
5. [The end-to-end Terraform workflow](#the-end-to-end-terraform-workflow)
6. [Liquid blocks](#liquid-blocks)
7. [Existing DCGW how-tos and shared includes](#existing-dcgw-how-tos-and-shared-includes)
8. [Style reminders](#style-reminders)

---

## Frontmatter schema and template

> Frontmatter is validated against `app/_data/schemas/frontmatter/how_to.json` (which extends `base.json`). Schema-required fields for a how-to: `tldr` (with `q` and `a`), `content_type`, `title`, `products`, `permalink`; repo convention is to also include `description` and, for DCGW Terraform how-tos, `works_on: [konnect]` and `tools: [terraform]`.

Author: ```suggestion
Frontmatter is validated against `app/_data/schemas/frontmatter/how_to.json` (which extends `base.json`). Schema-required fields for a how-to: `tldr` (with `q` and `a`), `content_type`, `title`, `products`, `permalink`,  `description` and, for DCGW Terraform how-tos, `works_on: [konnect]` and `tools: [terraform]`.

The goal of the `tldr` is that an experienced user can read it and know what they need to do without reading the rest of the how-to. It should be specific enough, like naming the Terraform resource like "Define a `konnect_cloud_gateway_transit_gateway` resource with an `azure-vnet-peering-attachment`" without being too verbose and repeating the content of the how-to body.
```

- `tools: [terraform]` (valid enum value; this is what marks the guide as Terraform-driven)
- `automated_tests: false` (DCGW provisioning is slow and account-specific)

Recommended `tags` (all valid in `app/_data/schemas/frontmatter/tags.json`): `dedicated-cloud-gateways`, `terraform`, the provider (`aws`, `azure`, or `google-cloud`), and a feature tag like `network` or `networking`.

Canonical template (Azure VNet peering shown, adapt per provider/feature):

```yaml
---
title: Configure an Azure Dedicated Cloud Gateway with VNET peering using Terraform
description: 'Use Terraform to configure an Azure Dedicated Cloud Gateway with VNET peering.'
content_type: how_to
permalink: /dedicated-cloud-gateways/azure-vnet-peering-terraform/
breadcrumbs:
  - /dedicated-cloud-gateways/
products:
  - konnect
works_on:
  - konnect
tools:
  - terraform
tags:
  - dedicated-cloud-gateways
  - terraform
  - azure
  - network
automated_tests: false
tldr:
  q: How do I configure an Azure Dedicated Cloud Gateway with VNET peering using Terraform?
  a: |
    Define a `konnect_cloud_gateway_transit_gateway` resource with an `azure-vnet-peering-attachment`,

>     apply it with Terraform, then create the peering role and assign it to the Kong service principal in Azure.

Reviewer: Is this example enough for Claude to understand how to write these, or should we describe the expected content/format?

Author: Good point, I've added more description for these!
